Fragrant plants were lined up in a row:
geranium, carnation, aster, and violet.
The young man spots new marvels down below:
right by the stream, where once there was a thicket
full of nettles, now a garden thrived, criss
crossed by tiny paths, with clumps of mint
and English grass. There was a fencepost carved
with some initials, daisies and ribbons pinned
and marking it. The flowers were all slick
and wet; someone had sprinkled half the can
and left the garden, making such a quick
getaway, the gate still swung. Whoever ran
left shoeless footprints in the sand, though shallow,
as if these feet had barely skimmed the ground.
The traveler stood and mused beside the window,
inhaling all the scents. In his profound
confusion, he began to lean too far,
as if drawn to the garden and the path,
almost tumbling out. He began to stare
at something in the distance, taking his breath
away a girl dressed in white, her slight
body almost uncovered, shoulders and a swan
like neck revealed! Such a sight
is rare in Lithuania, a land
where modesty prevails. And though she thought
she was unseen, her arms were shyly crossed
to screen herself. Her hair was twisted taut
and wrapped around white paper strips and lost,
for now, the ringlets coiled and dangling free.
And yet the rays of morning sunlight drowned
her in such a strange embellished glow, she
seemed to be a holy icon crowned.
At first she searched for something in the meadow.
He couldn't see her hidden face till she
began to run and skip. Thus he could follow
her movements, as she fell down joyously,
clasping her hands and laughing. Then she flew
up from the turf, a bird joining its flock,
over the fence, her white robe askew
and disappearedmuch to the young man's shock.
He saw her next in quite a flutter, when
she hopped in through the open window, singing,
and gathered her skirt, disheveled from the run,
and approached the mirror wholly unsuspecting.
Imagine what she thought, spying the youth:
she dropped her mouth and then her hem in fright,
although she didn't turn away. His breath
left him red as a cloud in morning light.
Shielding his eyes and with apologies,
he bowed, and almost tripping, withdrew.
The girl just screamed as if some dread disease
had caused her pain, or some nightmare creature flew
into her dream. The youth peeked out once more,
almost as horrified, but she was gone.
Convinced that he'd committed some grave error,
his heart pounding his chest, flooding his brain.
When he calmed down, he couldn't make the choice
to feel ashamed by this encounter or rejoice.